Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video we're going to be doing TTL caching
or time to live caching
using another package called cachetools.
Let's go over to our Interpreter settings
and instal the cachetools package.
So it's right here, just go ahead and instal that.
And we're gonna be using one of the things in this package
but it's actually got a few different caching functions
that you can look at in the official documentation
linked in the resources section of this lecture.
All you have to do is, instead of importing functools,
we're gonna say from cachetools import cached, TTLCache.
Now instead of functools.lru_cache, we wanna say @cached
and we're gonna pass in a cache which is TTLCache,
and the max size which is gonna be two
and the TTL which is gonna be 900,
so that is a quarter of an hour.
If you wanted to make this longer, you can do
but I'm just doing 900
so that it doesn't necessarily wait an entire hour
for an update if there is one earlier.
By doing this, you'll see that the app
actually runs almost identically fast.
But every 900 seconds, it will run slowly again
because it will actually interact with the server again.
This stuff here can be really useful
especially when you're interacting with APIs
or when you're doing some sort of web scraping.
For example, imagine you have a programme
that scrapes a website
and gives the user some information back.
If you have a lot of users all accessing the same programme,
you may be scraping the same site over and over again.
Instead what you could do,
is you could wrap the whole scraping
in a cached from cachetools and only scrape it
every 600 seconds, for example, every 10 minutes.
That could make your programme almost infinitely faster
while not hurting your users at all.
So hopefully you've learned something in this video.
I'll see you in the next one.